Hey, I just built the ultimate AI second
brain with Claude code and it lets me
organize my brain dumps into ideas,
people, projects, and tasks. I can even
delegate any task to my specialized AI
employees, all running in parallel on my
laptop. In this video, I'm going to step
you through how to set one of these up
for yourself, plus give you the template
for free. Here's how it works. Capture
any thought in 5 seconds, whether that's
a brain dump, meetings, ideas, or
follow-ups, and Claude Code
automatically classifies everything,
creates the right files and links them
together. The best part of all of this
is that it's happening in Obsidian, so
you can view your notes easily in a
beautiful UI, plus sync them to all of
your devices. Every morning, Claude
scans what's due, what's overdue, and
what projects need attention. It then
creates you a daily brief ready to
action. But it's not just an AI to-do
list. You can actually delegate any task
to your specialized AI employee. They're
trained to handle the work for you, and
they even check off their tasks when
they're done and link to the files they
create. This isn't just sub agents that
block you from working, either. We're
creating completely separate instances
of Claude code to do content research,
writing, spreadsheets, PDFs, or create
PowerPoints. All of these running in
parallel while you keep working on other
tasks. Your AI employee even dings you
when they're done. Plus, because
everything is being tracked in Git,
every single action that Claude takes is
automatically logged with notes. Full
audit trail near perfect recall. You can
time travel on your entire work history,
and Claude can see exactly what happened
and when. And if you're scared of the
terminal, Anthropic has just dropped a
native VS Code extension that gives you
all the power of Claude Code without
ever touching the command line. It's the
same agentic capabilities just wrapped
in a nicer GUI. So whether you're a
terminal warrior or prefer clicking
buttons, I've got you covered in this
video. Like always, I'm giving this away
for free. No sign up, no wait list, just
clone the repo and go. If you don't know
me, my name is Brad. I've been building
with AI for over 5 years now. I started
in big tech where I built thousands of
AI automations for massive companies.
Now I help businesses build AI systems
exactly like this one so they can out
compete with AI. If that's you, links
are in the description. Before we jump
into the setup, I want to explain how
the ultimate AI second brain is
structured. The centerpiece is the
second brain itself, a git tracked
Obsidian vault which stores all of my
thoughts as markdown files. Each of
these files is organized into either
ideas, people, projects, or tasks, and
they all have a due date. Each one of
these is also accessible inside of
Obsidian, so I can easily navigate and
search, plus add any tasks and make
edits. Sitting on top of the second
brain is my Claude code chief of staff.
Basically, this chief of staff can run
your entire work life. You brain dump
into Claude and it creates, identifies,
and decomposes your brain dump into the
base level node structure. For example,
if I write meeting with John to discuss
an AI agent project, it becomes a new
task to meet with John, a new person
record for John, and a new project for
the AI agent project. All of these are
linked together. Think of it like an AI
operating system for your knowledge
work. Tasks, projects, people, ideas,
all tracked in Markdown files that
Claude can read, write, and reason
about. Plus, you have the option of
interacting with them all in Obsidian.
Sitting adjacent to the chief of staff
and second brain are the specialized AI
co-workers. These are different claude
code repositories or folders with
specialist skills and workflows. For
example, we have our head of content AI
employee which can find the best winning
content ideas. We built this one last
week and if you haven't seen that video,
please check out the link above. Our AI
chief of staff can delegate any task
from our second brain to an AI co-orker.
These tasks run in parallel and
completely unsupervised. Once they're
done, they update the original task.
This isn't just another productivity
tool. This is a framework for building
AI employees that actually do work. And
the second brain plus chief of staff is
the command center that sits above your
other AI employees. All right, so here's
how your second brain actually works.
There are a few really key directories
within our second brain folder. We have
the ideas, the people, the projects, and
tasks. These are where we're storing all
of our different pieces of information
that we ingest into the second brain. We
also have some other folders in here as
well. The context folder, the daily
folder, and the outputs folder. I'll
start with the context folder. The
context folder is where you create all
of the different markdown files that
make this second brain your own. You can
add in a writing style, a business
profile, anything that's going to help
you make Claude understand you even
better. I already have a tweet style
saved in here. It just says I like short
tweets. So it can be as complex and
detailed as you like and obviously the
more context that you can give Claude
code the better the results you're going
to get. So outside of the context folder
we have the outputs folder. So whenever
I delegate a task to one of my AI
employees or I use or I delegate a task
within this particular repo and it has
to do research, create a file, anything
like that that's saved in the outputs
folder. But each of these will be linked
back to the original task. So every time
I run a /to today command and it has to
come up with a a daily plan for me, it
will save that daily plan here. So
that's separate from a task or anything
like that. And that lets me work through
this uh as my day goes on. So outside of
those folders, we have a claude folder
and aobsidian folder. So the important
thing to remember is that this second
brain is also an obsidian vault. So
that's why we have theobsidian folder,
which means we can actually go in and
read all of these markdown files super
easily inside of Obsidian. and it makes
it a pleasure to work with. So I have
the record here for Bruce Rain in the
people folder. He's a CEO of Wayne
Enterprises. Obviously much nicer to
look at then would be looking at this
inside of VS Code or cursor. So I guess
I should give you the definition of what
a task versus project versus an idea
versus a person is. Obviously person is
pretty self-explanatory. Any
relationship that comes up as part of a
brain dump that you put into cord will
be saved there. A task is anything with
a defined end date. So, I need to create
an email for so and so or I need to uh
write some copy for the marketing
campaign, something like that. A project
is a larger piece of work that's made up
of tasks. So, typically a project uh
file will be linked to several tasks and
may even be linked to some people. Ideas
are captured thoughts. They can be
anything. Maybe it's a a content idea,
maybe it's a new million-doll business
idea that you've that you've come up
with. Anything like that will be saved
here. So, one of the example ones I have
here is a prompt library for SAS. So,
every single one of the files, no matter
which folder they're saved in, whether
that's an idea, people, project, task,
or output, has a YAML header. So, we can
see the type, the tags, the created
date. And then for tasks, we can also
see the due date, which is really
important. All tasks need to have a due
date, which helps because Claude is
using looking for that due date whenever
it's running the today command. There's
also let's call it filter. So we can
filter based on the tags, based on
created date, whether it's overdue or
not. So that's all of the data that
makes the second brain the second brain.
Now I want to talk about what makes the
chief of staff agent or the clawed code
that's running on this particular repo.
Inside the claude directory, we have our
hooks and our skills. Pretty
self-explanatory if you've worked with
CLA code before. Inside the skill
directory, we have all of the skills
that are making our chief of staff
actually useful when running over the
second brain. and I'll run you through
what each of these does now. So, the
first one I'm going to show you is the
new command. The new command is probably
the one you're going to use the most.
Anytime you want to add something into
the second brain or write down a
thought, whether it's a new project,
emails, ideas, whatever, you can use the
new command. It's really, really
variable. So, I'll just type / new and
then I can write any thought. So, I want
to create a library for Claude skills.
Once I use that command, Claude then
starts to pick the command apart or
decompose it and create the relative
tasks. This one is super simple. It's
just one simple task. So, uh, when is
this due? Let's say no due date. It's
pretty open-ended. So, once I've
selected that, Claude will create the
task within the vault. So, we have it
right here. We have the type task, and I
can even click here and view it on the
right hand side. If I wanted to go add
some additional content or brain dump
some more into Claude, it could update
that task for me. But that's a really
simple task. I want to show you exactly
how powerful this new command is. If I
do / new, I have a meeting with John
Clemens about his new AI agent for
customer support. I need to prepare an
evaluation of the different vendors
beforehand. So, this is a complex task.
It's made up of several different
components. We have a person in John
Clemens. We have a a project in the AI
agent for customer support. And I have a
task in I need to prepare an evaluation
of the different vendors beforehand. So
I'll click enter. And then Claude will
go to work in decomposing that brain
dump into the specific subcomponents.
So looks like it's mclassified one of
those, but that's okay. I'm going to say
this is due tomorrow.
So the person it's picked that out
correctly. It's created a task for the
meeting with John Clemens the AI agent
and it also has another task for prepare
vendor evaluation. So I guess it wasn't
that incorrect. So I probably would have
created a project as well but obviously
you can go and improve this as much as
you want. Now I have these three
different files here. I can go and click
to John Clemens and I can click to the
to the meeting here. So this chief of
staff is trained with how Obsidian uh
expects links within MD file. I have the
person record for John Clemens linked to
the task and also the other task to
prepare a vendor evaluation for the AI
agent. So if I go into Obsidian here and
I search for meeting with John Clemens,
I can see it right here. I can see that
it's links to John Clemens here. Uh and
then it also links to the other
subtasks. So prepare evaluation of
different AI agent vendors for customer
support. So that's how the new skill
works. It's super powerful and is how
you can brain dump pretty much anything
into your AI second brain without having
to worry about organizing any of these
MD files. Cord will just handle that for
you. So that's the new skill. When you
want to start your day in the morning
and you want to see exactly what's in
your second brain and what you need to
action, the prioritized list of what you
need to be working on right this moment,
that's when you use the today skill. So
I go slash today and that will tell
Claude to go through all of my tasks and
that are due today or in the next couple
of days and rank them based on their
importance and then give me a daily
brief of tasks that I need to action
right now. So you can see Claude's going
through and reading all of the different
tasks that I have that are due in the
next couple of days or overdue. It
prioritizes overdue tasks, so things
that I've missed from the last previous
days, and then it will list out today's
tasks and then any tasks that are due in
the future. So you can see it's reading
a lot of information because I have a
lot of data that I've put into the
second brain for things that I need to
start looking at. So I'd already run
slash today. So it's already found my
today brief and just made some updates
based on some new tasks that I've added
since I ran it earlier. Now it's given
me a summary of that brief. But I
actually want to go in and read the
brief in full. So I'll open Obsidian up.
I'll go to my files and then I can go to
my daily tab. And I can see that I have
my today briefing from today. So I can
go see all the tasks that are due. So I
need to write a proposal for document
processing. I need to prepare a vendor
evaluation for AI agents which is the
task we just created. Write an X thread
on Claude skills. Research AI automation
YouTube trends and some YouTube other
YouTube content. I also have a few
overdue tasks which I haven't gotten to.
An invoice creating a SAR workshop and a
one-on-one with Marcus. It's also
linking all of my active projects that I
have at the moment and any recent
activity in this repo. It's also telling
me what I've completed as well. So I've
completed some research about make
versus naden and some AI automation
questions from core and Reddit. So
that's my plan for today and then I
would go through and execute on these. I
can either go and check these off
individually or the most powerful part
of this repo is I can delegate some of
these. So I want to actually delegate
this uh X thread for chord skills. What
I'm going to do is show you how the
delegate skill works. Now, before I get
into that, I want to shout out to Indie
Devdan, who is the original creator of
the script for the delegate task. He
made a really great video on how to fork
terminals uh in chord code and created a
great skill which I've adapted for this
workflow. So, if you're not already
subscribed to Indie Devdan, go check him
out. I'll leave a link to that video in
the description below. So, I want to
delegate some of those tasks. I'm going
to type in /delegate and then I'll paste
in that task. So, right X thread for
cord skills. Uh, and to the head of
content. Now, if you haven't seen my
video on the head of content that came
out last week and it's a really great
watch. So, I'll link it up here so you
can go have a look. But what the head of
content is is a specialized AI co-worker
that has a bunch of workflows and
scripts related to content research. So
by delegating this to the head of
content, it's going to open up a new
terminal on my machine, not just use a
sub agent. This means that I don't have
to stop working because it's opened a
new ver a new instance of claude code. I
can continue to delegate other tasks or
I can go on my phone or I can go create
write some emails, any of that. That's
an old one over here. So I'm just going
to terminate that. But you can see that
it's opened a new terminal. Uh it's
given the prompt for what I need it to
do based on the task. It has the
directory where that task is saved and
it's also been instructed to update that
task once it's completed. So I'll leave
that in the background now and it'll
ding us when it's done. So I want to go
back up here and I want to actually take
advantage of that delegate skill even
more and delegate some more. So I'm
going to ask it to prepare that intake
proposal. So I'm going to delegate that
task
and that ding. That was the agent
finishing in the background there. So
I'm going to delegate this prepare
intake proposal task. I'm not going to
use an AI coworker here because my chief
of staff agent can handle this. I just
don't want it to run in this terminal.
So, I can see that it's finished uh the
clawed code thread and it's saved that
to the outputs here. Uh so, I am going
to go take a look at that in Obsidian.
I'll just actually let it run this other
command here. So in the outputs I can
see that here's that X thread for Claude
skills
and it's given me the first tweet the
hook what are skills and a bit of a a
bit of a breakdown here of of the thread
that I could run. So you'll also find
that when I search for that other skill
X thread for chord uh for claude skills.
So I go back to my daily uh brief and
then I click on that thread, it's been
marked as completed because I delegated
that task to Claude code in the
background. And then it's also linked to
the actual output thread here. So that's
really great and working as we want it
to. While we've been talking, I actually
delegated another task to uh a different
version of claude code which is open in
another terminal here. It's going to
really struggle to write this proposal
for any tech because I have absolutely
zero context within this folder around
it. But if I had taken the time to go
and fill in this context folder with
details around the project or had given
it some more instructions as to where it
could find that context, then it would
go and write that proposal. But we're
going to leave that in the background to
keep running. And it's just finished. So
every time one of these tasks finish in
the background, it plays a sound so we
know to go check that it's completed. So
I can see that it's created a proposal.
We'll see what it says because to be
honest, it had nothing to go on. So it
might be quite funny. So, in my output
folder here, I have my in inite techch
proposal. So, apparently they process
over 10,000 invoices monthly. It's
giving me the current state, some
business impact, uh, vision model
architecture, and a couple of different
prices. Sounds like this is going to be
a really expensive proposal for initech.
So, that's great. So, that's the power
of the second brain and delegate skill
together. As you can see, the sky is
really the limit here as far as what you
can do with it. You can run as many
claude code instances on your computer
as your plan will allow and as your
computer has memory. So we're not
limited here by running sub agents in
one claude. We can run as many tasks at
the same time as possible. The other
thing that we can do here and we saw
with the head of content skill is
delegate to AI employees. So we have an
AI employee for head of for content
research at the moment. But we can very
easily go and build an AI employee for
sales, for marketing, for customer
support, for customer success. Any of
those different verticals will have
specific workflows and scripts that we
can develop to help those AI employees
do their job even better. But even
without those AI employees, Claude's
delegating it to just another instance
of Claude is still does a pretty good
job. There's one last thing that makes
this chief of staff the ultimate AI
second brain and that is the hooks that
we've built in. So claude hooks are
deterministic workflows that always
happen when Claude does something. In
the settings.json file, we have the two
hooks that I've preconfigured for this
repo and they're really really cool. So
the first one is an auto commit hook and
that runs after anytime Claude updates a
file or creates a file within the repo.
Whenever I use the new skill or the
today's skill or delegate a task, the
auto commit hook will run. That runs a a
script that we have set up in the hooks
folder. I'm not going to go through that
now, but if you want to, it's there. The
other hook that we have set up is a
command for it to play a stop sound
whenever Claude finishes its run. So, we
obviously don't want the chief of staff
to play a sound every single time we do
something cuz that would be super
annoying. So, what we've done is set an
environment variable every time we're
opening up a new claude instance. And
that hook is listening for that
environment variable to be set to one.
When that's set to one, it'll play a
little chime sound so we know that
chord's finished doing that work. I need
to zoom in on that git part because it's
one of the most powerful parts of this
second brain. Git isn't just for code.
It's the world's best audit system when
it comes to AI workflows. If AI can know
exactly what changes were made and when
they were made and by who ma and who
made them, it's able to reverse engineer
any mistakes that happened down the
track. It's really, really powerful. I
want to show you how easy it is to use
your chief of staff to see what has
happened with your tasks in the last
couple of days. So, check the git log to
see what updates I've made in the past 7
days. So, this repo has only been around
for three, so we won't have seven days
worth, but we'll see. So, you can see
every single commit or every single
change that h has happened since this
repo has been initialized. 27 commits on
the first day, 44 on the second, and 22
today. We have all of the different
changes that have been made, every task
that I've created, every task that I've
marked as completed, every output file,
everything is stored in Git. This is the
real superpower of this second brain
because a system that you might set up
in notion or confluence with Zapia
doesn't have this ability. You can't
tell what has changed within your second
brain over 1 day, 2 days, 7 days since
it's begun. Git gives you a complete
history of every change that has
happened in this repo. It gives you
total flexibility and the ability to
revert any change at any time. You can
compare two points in time to see
exactly what it's what's changed. you
can branch out and and experiment on one
path and then revert back to the other.
It really is a superpower and blows away
notion or confluence or just obsidian by
itself. I want to pause for a second
because this AI system can literally 10x
the amount of work that you get done if
you use it correctly. But this is really
just the foundation. We've proved the
concept with the head of content plugged
into the second brain with the chief of
staff. What comes next is more AI
employees. Like what if you had a head
of research that monitored competitors
daily? a head of marketing that drafted
content based on your playbooks, a head
of ops that manage your calendar and
email. Each one of these lives in its
own repo or folder with its own
specialized skills. The chief of staff
orchestrates all of them. You end up
with a full AI workforce, all spawning
from one place, all tracked in Git and
all without another expensive
subscription that you weren't already
paying for. This is what I mean when I
say we're building AI employees, not AI
tools. If you want to see me build out
more employees, head of research, head
of writing, head of whatever, hit the
subscribe button. This repo is just the
start. So, if you want to get started
with your second brain, here's exactly
how to do that. Clone the repository
from the link in the description below
to your local machine. Whether you're
using git to do that or whether you're
just downloading the zip files, it
doesn't matter. But what you need to do
is get that repository open in an ID
like VS Code or cursor. Once you do have
that open, create a new terminal and go
to claude code. Now, I've made it super
super easy to get started with this. All
you need to do is go /st start second
brain. This will create all of the
folders that we need and it will start
the git tracking so that we have that
audit log for all of the second brain uh
tasks, ideas, and projects that we
create. So, I'm just going to say yes.
So, it's gone ahead and created all of
the folders that we need here. And now
it's going to initialize git.
Great. So we have everything we need to
get started with the second brain. Now
that's literally it. We can do a few
things to really increase the power of
our second brain. So in the docord
folder there is a few different
reference files. So you want to go to
doclord references and then
employees.json. If you have any other
employee directory set up on your
machine, whether that's the head of
content that we created last week or a
different AI repo that you want to save
here, you can do so. So you can just
either edit this here. You can edit the
head of content example or you can
create another one. So this is just
JSON. So if you want to add another one,
you would just go down here and create a
new line.
So what you want to put here is the
relative path to where that repo is from
this repo. So for my example, I have
both the head of content and my second
brain repos in the same folder, GitHub.
So if you have a similar setup, you
would do uh something very similar to
that. But if you do have problems or
need help trying to find exactly what
you need to put there, just ask Claude.
So once you have your employees.json set
up, the other thing that you want to set
up is your context folder. So inside of
your context folder, you can add as many
markdown files as you want. Whether that
is your company profile, some branding
guidelines, whatever. The more context
you can add here, the better the better
outputs you'll get from your chief of
staff and second brain. So that's it.
Once you have the repo initialized using
the start second brain command and you
have added in your settings and content
that's all you need to get started. If
you want to use the second brain inside
of Obsidian, what you need to do is
first go download Obsidian and there'll
be a link in the description below if
you don't have that already. It's free.
So I'm going to open Obsidian on my
machine. So once you've got Obsidian
opened up on your machine, you want to
go to the open folder as a vault and
find the folder that you've saved your
Second Brain in. So I've got second
brain here and I'll press open. Now I
have all of the files open in Obsidian
and any markdowns we markdown files or
tasks we create will be available here
as well. So that's it. Once you have the
repo cloned, you've got it open in
Obsidian, that's all you need to do. Uh
there are also detailed instructions in
the readme of the repo linked in the
description below. Yeah, that's it. Or
you can now just go start new and
whatever's on your mind, projects,
ideas, tasks, anything. So second brains
are innately personal. So, I want you to
try mine. Obviously, you're going to
want to make some changes to make it fit
you perfectly, but I'm really excited to
see where you guys go with it and to see
what you guys create. If you found this
video useful, do me a favor, hit like
and subscribe. I'm planning a lot more
content around Claude Code, AI
employees, more co-worker directories,
more skills. If you want to see specific
capabilities or employees, drop a
comment telling me exactly what you want
to see next. Thanks for watching.